README.md, before:

# Revenue ETL Pipeline

This project implements an ETL pipeline to fetch booking data from an API, transform it using currency rates and fees, and load the summarized invoicing data into a PostgreSQL database.

---

## Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- Poetry installed ([installation guide](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation))
- Python 3.12+

---
## Setup and Usage

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ananya65/revenue-pipeline.git
```
### 2. Start PostgreSQL with Docker Compose

Run the following command to start the PostgreSQL database container in detached mode:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### 3. Install dependencies and activate virtual environment

Install dependencies and activate virtual environment

```bash
poetry shell
poetry install
```


### 3. Configure environment variables

Create a .env file in the project root with the following variables:
```bash
API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api/bookings
PER_PAGE=20

DB_USER=truvi_user
DB_PASS=truvi_pass
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=truvi_db

CURRENCY_MAPPING={"UK":"GBP","USA":"USD","France":"EUR"}
FEE_PER_BOOKING={"UK":10,"USA":14,"France":12}
MIN_FEE={"UK":100,"USA":140,"France":120}
```

Commit message:

added the 6th step to readme file

README.md, after:

# Revenue ETL Pipeline

This project implements an ETL pipeline to fetch booking data from an API, transform it using currency rates and fees, and load the summarized invoicing data into a PostgreSQL database.

---

## Prerequisites

- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- Poetry installed ([installation guide](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation))
- Python 3.12+

---
## Setup and Usage

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ananya65/revenue-pipeline.git
```
### 2. Start PostgreSQL with Docker Compose

Run the following command to start the PostgreSQL database container in detached mode:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

### 3. Install dependencies and activate virtual environment

Install dependencies and activate virtual environment

```bash
poetry shell
poetry install
```


### 4. Configure environment variables

Create a .env file in the project root with the following variables:
```bash
API_URL=http://localhost:5000/api/bookings
PER_PAGE=20

DB_USER=truvi_user
DB_PASS=truvi_pass
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=truvi_db

CURRENCY_MAPPING={"UK":"GBP","USA":"USD","France":"EUR"}
FEE_PER_BOOKING={"UK":10,"USA":14,"France":12}
MIN_FEE={"UK":100,"USA":140,"France":120}
```

### 5.Run the data pipeline

Run the main script to load currency rates, fetch bookings from the API, transform the data, and load the invoicing summary into the database:
```bash
python main.py
```


### 6.Notes

Run the main script to load currency rates, fetch bookings from the API, transform the data, and load the invoicing summary into the database:
```bash
Ensure Docker PostgreSQL container is running before running the pipeline

Modify the .env file to reflect your database credentials and API details ( Currently the .env file is in the git hub repo and we won't need to create a .env file but in production pipeline .env files are shared and need to be created at the local side )

Use Poetry to manage dependencies and environment
```
